<h5><b>The challenge: </b></h5>If a major space weather event like the Carrington Event of 1859 were to occur today, the impacts to society could be devastating. Your challenge is to develop a machine learning algorithm or neural network pipeline to correctly track changes in the peak solar wind speed and provide an early warning of the next potential Carrington-like event

<h5><b>Background: </b></h5>
The Carrington Event of 1859 was perhaps the most intense solar event of the century. During this event, a series of powerful coronal mass ejections hit Earth head-on. The resulting effects were observed worldwide and observations of glowing night sky auroras were recorded globally, including near the equator. This space weather event caused geomagnetically induced currents in long stretches of the telegraph transmission lines that were common in that day, generating enough current for the lines to operate without batteries. Some telegraph stations even caught fire from the induced currents. There were no high voltage (HV) electrical power transmission lines back then, so fortunately, the impact of the Carrington Event on global safety and economics was minor.

In today's world, however, where nearly everything relies on electricity and computers and machines powered by the “grid,” such an event would be disastrous! Solar storms can eject large amounts of high energy particles as solar wind, and when these winds reach Earth, they can damage telecommunications satellites, power lines, and other electrical or electronic systems. The HV power lines and substations we depend on could potentially be damaged or put out of commission for months or years, since the lead time to obtain such large power transformers is very long and they are expensive items to replace.

The Deep Space Climate Observatory (DSCOVR) is the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Space Weather Prediction Center's principal asset for monitoring space weather and providing early warnings of solar events that could affect Earth. DSCOVR successfully launched in February 2015. It was built by NASA and is operated by NOAA. DSCOVR sits at the Sun-Earth L1 Lagrange point about one million miles away from Earth, and can warn us about 45 minutes in advance of a space weather event. DSCOVR uses a variety of instruments to detect solar activity and flares. One critical DSCOVR instrument in use since 2015 is the Faraday Cup (FC), which tracks the peak solar wind speed.